W-13876942: Update local-api-specification-tutorial.adoc (#106)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/local-api-specification-tutorial.adoc

= Iteratively Designing and Implementing an API Specification
:page-aliases: implement-a-local-api-guide.adoc, tut-local-iterative-design-implement.adoc
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

//LOGO (web, desktop, or both)
include::partial$acb-ide-logos.adoc[tags="both-ides"]

> Anypoint Code Builder enables you to scaffold an API specification into the configuration XML for a Mule project without first publishing the specification to Anypoint Exchange. For example, if you add a new endpoint to your API specification, Anypoint Code Builder is able to scaffold a new flow for that endpoint through the command `MuleSoft: Implement this local API`.

Reviewer: Some suggestions: I would focus also that the integration project should be created with the command `MuleSoft: Implement this local API`, this means that you can scaffold an API locally but the integration project should be started from this point, currently we can't re-use a existing integration project.

> Anypoint Code Builder enables you to scaffold an API specification into the configuration XML for a Mule project without first publishing the specification to Anypoint Exchange. For example, if you add a new endpoint to your API specification, Anypoint Code Builder is able to scaffold a new flow for that endpoint through the command `MuleSoft: Implement this local API`.

Author: ```suggestion
Anypoint Code Builder enables you to scaffold an API specification into the configuration XML for a Mule project without first publishing the specification to Anypoint Exchange. For example, if you add a new endpoint to your API specification, Anypoint Code Builder is able to scaffold a new flow for that endpoint through the command `MuleSoft: Implement this local API`. Generate the Mule project with this command instead of attempting to use an existing project. 
```

A local project for an API specification or implementation resides in your Anypoint Code Builder IDE, whether in your desktop IDE or in the web IDE associated with your user account in Anypoint Platform. 

////
TODO duke: TBD: INTEGRATE THIS INFO? 

> You can close your multi-root workspace by running the Workspaces: Close Workspace command. You can re-open your synchronized project by opening the workspace your created when you started implementing your local API.

Reviewer: It would be great to add this like a tip, for the ones who works with several workspaces, ACB allows you to close the workspace and re-opened keeping the last saved state of the project

Author: added to another section on this page

> ////
> TODO duke: TBD: INTEGRATE THIS INFO? 
> You can close your multi-root workspace by running the Workspaces: Close Workspace command. You can re-open your synchronized project by opening the workspace your created when you started implementing your local API.
> ////

Author: ```suggestion
TIP: You can close a multi-root workspace with the command `Workspaces: Close Workspace`. After closing the workspace, you can reopen your synchronized project from the workspace that you create when implementing the API.
```

== Before You Begin

Set up your MuleSoft environment. See xref:setup.adoc[] for more information. 

[[create]]
== Create an API Specification in a New VS Code Window

Iterative API design and implementation within the IDE takes place in a multi-root workspace in VS Code. The IDE permits only one pair of iterative design and implementation projects per multi-root workspace. 

> To avoid potential issues from limitations of multi-root workspaces when implementing a local API specification, start with a new VS Code window and parent folder for your API specification project:

Reviewer: What does it means the section of `and a parent folder?`. Because I think the only suggestion would be start from a new windows or an existing saved workspace

Author: If I didn't create a clean parent folder without a .code-workspace, I didn't see the command I needed to _implement this API_. Creating the parent folder was the only way I could get it to work without the risk of creating a the project in a folder that had synchronized projects. If there's another way, I'm glad to change it, but this was the only consistent way it worked for me even in a new VS Code window.

@marinarv

. Open a new window in VS Code by pressing Ctrl+Shift+n (Mac) or Cmd+Shift+n (Windows).
+

> This step helps prevent the possibility of creating an API specification in a multi-root workspace that already contains iterative design and implementation projects and ensures that the command required in the next procedure, <<implement-local>>, is available.

Reviewer: cool, I like this clarification.

= Iteratively Design and Implement an API Specification
:page-aliases: implement-a-local-api-guide.adoc, tut-local-iterative-design-implement.adoc
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

//LOGO (web, desktop, or both)
include::partial$acb-ide-logos.adoc[tags="both-ides"]

> Scaffold an API specification into an interface within your IDE, and synchronize changes to the specification with interface without first publishing to Anypoint Exchange. The interface is a configuration XML file automatically created during the scaffolding process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scaffold an API specification into an interface within your IDE, and synchronize changes to the specification with the interface without first publishing to Anypoint Exchange. The interface is a configuration XML file automatically created during the scaffolding process.
```

For example, after adding a new endpoint to your API specification, you can re-scaffold the change into your implementation XML to add a flow for that endpoint.

Iterative API design and implementation within the IDE takes place in a _multi-root workspace_ in VS Code. The IDE permits only one pair of iterative design and implementation projects per multi-root workspace. 

== Before You Begin

Follow procedures in xref:setup.adoc[Set Up and Access Anypoint Code Builder].

[[create]]
== Create an API Specification in a New VS Code Window

To avoid potential issues from limitations of multi-root workspaces when implementing a local API specification, start with a new VS Code window and folder for your workspace. 

. Open a new window in VS Code by pressing Cmd+Shift+n (Mac) or Ctrl+Shift+n (Windows).
+

> This step helps prevent the possibility of creating an API specification in a multi-root workspace that already contains iterative design and implementation projects and ensures that the command required in the next procedure, <<scaffold>>, is available.

Reviewer: 👍

> . Open Anypoint Code Builder by clicking the *Anypoint Code Builder* (Mulesoft) icon in the activity bar. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Open Anypoint Code Builder by clicking the *Anypoint Code Builder* (MuleSoft) icon in the activity bar. 
```
Definitely not a big deal! Feel free to disregard nit-picky suggestions like this.

. Start an API specification by clicking the quick action *Design an API*. 
+
Alternatively, open the Command Palette by pressing Ctrl+Shift+p (Mac) or Cmd+Shift+p (Windows), and provide this command:
+
[source,command]
----
MuleSoft: Design an API
----
. If prompted, sign in to Anypoint Platform, and follow all the prompts to reopen the IDE. 
. Configure your API using these values:
+
image::design-api-ui-first.png["Configure Retrieve Users API"]
+
--
[calloutlist]
.. In *Project name*, type: `*Retrieve Users API*`.

> .. In *Project Location*, select *Browse*, create a folder for your project's multi-root workspace, and select that folder's location. For example:

Reviewer 2: Is "multi-root workspace" the same as "project"? In this section we're referring to a "project location", which implies that we're saving a "project". In a later section we're saving a "code-workspace".

Does "multi-root workspace" differ from "code-workspace"?

These terms are throwing me for a loop. It could be that I'm not understanding because I'm not familiar with this stuff.

Reviewer 2: @dukesphere

Author: Good info. I'll try to clarify upfront in the doc. To answer here, the *.code-workspace file is the VS Code file that needs to be in the root of the multi-root workspace folder. The IDE create folders for each project. So there is one for the API spec project and another for the implementation project. What I'm calling the multi-root workspace folder is the folder that contains that *.code-workspace file. When you create the implementation project, you can create it in that multi-root folder. The project folder will be a child folder of the multi-root folder. It's confusing though...

+
`/Users/me/workspace-retrieve-users`
+
NOTE::

> To avoid potential issues related to multi-root workspaces, do not use a pre-existing project folder for iterative design and implementation projects.

Reviewer: 💯

= Iteratively Design and Implement an API Specification
:page-aliases: implement-a-local-api-guide.adoc, tut-local-iterative-design-implement.adoc
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

//LOGO (web, desktop, or both)
include::partial$acb-ide-logos.adoc[tags="desktop-only"]

Scaffold an API specification into an interface project within your IDE, and synchronize changes to the specification with the interface without first publishing to Anypoint Exchange. For example, after adding a new endpoint to your API specification, you can re-scaffold the change into the interface to add a flow for that endpoint to the interface's configuration XML file.

The interface XML is automatically created in a Mule project during the scaffolding process. You define an API in a specification file within an API Design project.

> Iterative API design and implementation within the IDE takes place in a _multi-root workspace_ in VS Code. To map project folders for your API specification and implementation projects into a multi-root workspace, VS Code uses a file with the extension `.code-workspace`. For your projects to work properly, this file must not reside _within_ either project folder. In addition, Anypoint Code Builder permits only one pair of iterative design and implementation project folders per multi-root workspace. The procedures for creating the specification and implementation projects are designed to meet these requirements. For information in the VS Code documentation, see https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces[Multi-root Workspaces^].

Author: ```suggestion
Iterative API design and implementation within the IDE takes place in a _multi-root workspace_ in VS Code. To map project folders for your API specification and implementation projects into a multi-root workspace, VS Code uses a file with the extension `.code-workspace`. For your projects to work properly, this file _must not reside within_ either project folder. In addition, Anypoint Code Builder permits only one pair of iterative design and implementation project folders per multi-root workspace. The procedures for creating the specification and implementation projects are designed to meet these requirements. For information in the VS Code documentation, see https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces[Multi-root Workspaces^].
```

= Iteratively Design and Implement an API Specification
:page-aliases: implement-a-local-api-guide.adoc, tut-local-iterative-design-implement.adoc
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

//LOGO (web, desktop, or both)
include::partial$acb-ide-logos.adoc[tags="desktop-only"]

> Scaffold an API specification into a separate interface project within your IDE, and synchronize changes to the specification with the interface without first publishing to Anypoint Exchange. The interface is a configuration XML file automatically created during the scaffolding process. 

Author: ```suggestion
Scaffold an API specification into an interface project within your IDE, and synchronize changes to the specification with the interface without first publishing to Anypoint Exchange. The interface is a configuration XML file automatically created during the scaffolding process. 
```

. Configure your API using these values:
+
image::design-api-ui-first.png["Configure Retrieve Users API"]
+
--
[calloutlist]
.. In *Project name*, type: 
+
*Retrieve Users API*
+
The name must be unique.
.. In *Project Location*, click *Browse*. 
+
In the file menu that opens in the desktop IDE, create a folder such as `workspace-retrieve-users`, and then select that folder's location. 
+
When you are done, the full path in the *Project Location* field is similar to `/Users/me/workspace-retrieve-users`. Starting from the directory with your new folder prevents potential issues related to multi-root workspaces.
.. In *API Specification Language*, select *RAML 1.0*.
.. In *Business Group*, select the business group for your API specification. You can't change business groups after you create your API specification.
+
See xref:access-management::business-groups.adoc[Business Groups] for more information. 
--
When complete, *Design an API* is similar to this example:
+
image::tut-api-create.png["Design an API configuration"]
. Select *Create Project*.
+
This process creates a project that contains your API specification within your workspace.
+

> Your API specification file `retrieve-users-api.raml` opens automatically from the Explorer menu.

Author: ```suggestion
Your API specification file `retrieve-users-api.raml` opens automatically from the Explorer menu. You can also open in manually.
```

                "bs": "harness real-time e-markets"
              } }]
--
. Proceed to <<implement-local>>.

[[implement-local]]
== Implement the Local API Specification in a Multi-Root Workspace

Synchronizing your local API specification with a local implementation project in your IDE requires a multi-root workspace in Visual Studio Code.

> TIP: You can close a multi-root workspace with the command `Workspaces: Close Workspace`. Reopen a synchronized project from the workspace that you create when implementing the API.

Author: Added TIP here about closing the workspace and opening the synchronized project

To implement your specification in a multi-root workspace:

. Open the Command Palette by pressing Ctrl+Shift+p (Windows) or Cmd+Shift+p (Mac), and provide the following command:
+
[source,command]
----
MuleSoft: Implement this Local API
----
+
The UI displays the following message: *We'll create a workspace to keep your API specification and Mule project in sync.*
+
_Do not select_ the command `MuleSoft: Implement an API Specification`, which is for implementing a specification that is published on Anypoint Exchange and _not for_ implementing a local API specification.  
+
If you don't find `MuleSoft: Implement this Local API` in the command palette or the X-shaped icon in the UI for this command , go to <<display-command>>.
+

> image::tut-local-spec-implement.png["UI with the X-shaped icon for the command Implement this Local API"]

Author: ☝️ added screenshot with the X-shaped icon for the command

                "bs": "harness real-time e-markets"
              } }]
--
. Proceed to <<implement-local>>.

[[implement-local]]
== Implement the Local API Specification in a Multi-Root Workspace

Synchronizing your local API specification with a local implementation project in your IDE requires a multi-root workspace in Visual Studio Code.

To implement your specification in a multi-root workspace:

. Open the Command Palette by pressing Ctrl+Shift+p (Windows) or Cmd+Shift+p (Mac), and provide the following command:
+
[source,command]
----
MuleSoft: Implement this Local API
----
+
The UI displays the following message: *We'll create a workspace to keep your API specification and Mule project in sync.*
+
_Do not select_ the command `MuleSoft: Implement an API Specification`, which is for implementing a specification that is published on Anypoint Exchange and _not for_ implementing a local API specification.  
+

> If you don't find `MuleSoft: Implement this Local API` in the command palette, go to <<display-command>>.

Reviewer: Also de icon should be visible, the one that is kind of a X with arrows

Author: We can add a screenshot for the here, though we do have a command for the same thing.

Scaffold your local API specification:

. With `retrieve-users-api.raml` open in your IDE, scaffold the specification into a Mule project:
 
.. Find and click the X-shaped *Implement this local API* icon for the specification file. 
+
[[icon-implement-this-api]]
image::tut-local-spec-implement.png["UI with the X-shaped icon for the command Implement this Local API"]
+
Alternatively, open the Command Palette by pressing Ctrl+Shift+p (Windows) or Cmd+Shift+p (Mac), and provide this command:
+
[source,command]
----
MuleSoft: Implement this Local API
----
+
_Do not select_ the command `MuleSoft: Implement an API Specification`, which is for implementing a specification that is published on Anypoint Exchange and _not for_ implementing a local API specification. 

.. Click *OK* when the UI displays the message *We'll create a workspace to keep your API specification and Mule project in sync.*
+
If you don't find the icon or command, go to <<display-command>>.
+
The UI asks you to save a file with the extension `.code-workspace` for a multi-root workspace. 
+
IMPORTANT::

> _Do not save this file within your API specification project folder_. Proceed to the next step, instead.

Reviewer: 👍

.. Navigate up to the parent folder you created for your workspace, and save the `.code-workspace` file.
.. Make sure that your *Mule DX Server* output is available for tracking the progress of internal processes in the *Output* panel.
+

> The UI provides a message *Implementing local API implementation, please wait.* Wait for up to a minute for the field *Mule project name* to appear at the top of the UI.

Reviewer: Suggestion: here we could also mention, like previous steps that you can follow progress with the output->Mule DX Server logs

Author: It's added in the step: 
.. Make sure that your *Mule DX Server* output is available **for tracking the progress of internal processes in the *Output* panel**.

.. A message the project *has been successfully published to Exchange*. 

The specification is now available on https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/?show=org&sort=last[Anypoint Exchange^] for team members in your business group to scaffold into their projects and implement. See <<scaffold-from-exchange>>.

[[scaffold-from-exchange]]
== Scaffold the API Specification from Exchange

Team members in your business group can import your scaffolded API specification from Exchange:

. Open a new VS Code instance. 
. Import version 1.0.0 of your API from Design Center:
.. Enter this command:
+
----
Implement an API Specification
----
.. In the *Implement an API Specification* tab that opens: 

* Provide a new name for the implementation.
* Select or create a new project location.
* Find your API specification on Anypoint Exchange, and click *Add* to insert the API name into the field. 
.. Click *Create Project* to start scaffolding the specification into a new implementation.  
. Implement the scaffolded specification in your IDE.

//TODO: RETEST THIS PROCEDURE. CREATE STORY.
[[display-command]]
== Display the Command MuleSoft: Implement this Local API

> If `MuleSoft: Implement this Local API Command` does not appear in the command palette from your open API specification project, it is likely that another project in your multi-root workspace is implementing a local API specification. 

Reviewer: Also another reason could be that the API Specification is already an snapshot version, just check the exchange.json file and version field should not have the -SNAPSHOT word.

> . In the Explorer, right-click your new API specification folder, select *Remove project from workspace*.

Reviewer: 👏

Author: yay

----
MuleSoft: Publish API Specification to Exchange
----
. Type a project name: *Retrieve Users API*
. Confirm the artifact ID: *Retrieve-Users-API*
. Confirm the asset version: *1.0.0*.
. Confirm the API version: *v1*.
+
The status bar displays the progress, first *Publishing API Specification to Exchange* and when done, a message that the project *has been successfully published to Exchange*. Then the IDE updates your Mule project POM file to point to `v1.0.0` of your API specification.
+
. To work iteratively on a new version of your API specification, close the current workspace and re-import version 1.0.0 of your API from Design Center, and implement it locally again.

[[display-command]]
== Display the Command MuleSoft: Implement this Local API

> 

Author: Still not able to consistently remove and move a project folder to a new workspace so I can implement it. Until then,  this section continues to be about removing and deleting vs. moving.

Author: ok, it's working now, but I don't know what I am doing differently ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

----
MuleSoft: Publish API Specification to Exchange
----
. Type a project name: *Retrieve Users API*
. Confirm the artifact ID: *Retrieve-Users-API*
. Confirm the asset version: *1.0.0*.
. Confirm the API version: *v1*.
+
The status bar displays the progress, first *Publishing API Specification to Exchange* and when done, a message that the project *has been successfully published to Exchange*. Then the IDE updates your Mule project POM file to point to `v1.0.0` of your API specification.
+
. To work iteratively on a new version of your API specification, close the current workspace and re-import version 1.0.0 of your API from Design Center, and implement it locally again.

[[display-command]]

> == Display the Command MuleSoft: Implement this Local API

Author: ok this process is updated and seems to work find now

.. A message the project *has been successfully published to Exchange*. 

The specification is now available on https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/?show=org&sort=last[Anypoint Exchange^] for team members in your business group to scaffold into their projects and implement. See <<scaffold-from-exchange>>.

[[scaffold-from-exchange]]
== Scaffold the API Specification from Exchange

Team members in your business group can import your scaffolded API specification from Exchange:

. Open a new VS Code instance. 
. Import version 1.0.0 of your API from Design Center:
.. Enter this command:
+
----
MuleSoft: Implement an API Specification
----
.. In the *Implement an API Specification* tab that opens: 

* Provide a new name for the implementation.
* Select or create a new project location.
* Find your API specification on Anypoint Exchange, and click *Add* to insert the API name into the field. 
.. Click *Create Project* to start scaffolding the specification into a new implementation.  
. Implement the scaffolded specification in your IDE.

//TODO: RETEST THIS PROCEDURE. CREATE STORY.
[[display-command]]
== Display the Command MuleSoft: Implement this Local API

> If `MuleSoft: Implement this Local API Command` does not appear in the command palette from your open API specification project, it is likely that another project in your multi-root workspace is implementing a local API specification. 

Author: ```suggestion
If `MuleSoft: Implement this Local API Command` does not appear in the command palette from your open API specification project, potential causes are: 

* Another project in your multi-root workspace is implementing a local API specification. 
* The API specification is already has a snapshot version. 
+
The `exchange.json` file in the specification project should not have the `-SNAPSHOT` postfix.
```
